# Accident Severity Prediction

> Applied Data Science Capstone Project

### Business Problem
The key objective of this project is to predict the severity of accidents in the Seattle area using the historical data provided by the Seattle Police Department (SPD). Road accidents are a major problem causing thousands of deaths and even greater number of injuries each year. They also cause significant amount of property damage. They are especially common in densely populated urban cities. Due to the rapid urbanization, the rate of road traffic accidents has been continually increasing each year. There are several reasons which contribute towards accidents such as conditions of roads, weather conditions, traffic situations etc. By performing machine learning, we try to predict the severity of road accidents which will help us identify the major contributing factors behind them. This information can then be used by the authorities to take appropriate preventive measures that will reduce the risk of accidents. Individual commuters can also utilize this information to plan their travel accordingly.

### Data
For our project, we utilize the road collisions data in Seattle region provided by the Seattle Police Department. The scope of our data is from the year 2004 to present. We have a sufficiently large dataset consisting of 194673 records along with a wide variety of 38 attributes. Some of the major attributes in the data include location information, weather conditions, road conditions, along with the date and time of the incident. We use the 'SEVERITY CODE' column in our data as the target label for our modelling. Severity code of 1 corresponds to accidents involving only property damage whereas a value of 2 corresponds to an injury. We access the richness of our data with an exploratory data analysis using visualization techniques.
